[Music]
ten common survival tips that turn out
to be harmful nowadays the internet is
full of survival tips and life-saving
hacks how can we know which tips are
actually true Brightside has decided to
delve into this topic and present to you
a list of the most common mistakes that
people make while giving first aid
number 10 severe bleeding the biggest
mistake you can make here is using a
tourniquet immediately tourniquets are
an important part of first-aid treatment
for bleeding but they're definitely not
the first thing you should do first off
call an ambulance
then the most important thing you can do
is stop the bleeding
so place a clean cloth or a sterile
bandage on the wound and press it firmly
to control the bleeding try to maintain
pressure by binding the wound with a
thick bandage and keep pressing firmly
on the injured area another thing that
can help is elevating the limb above the
level of the heart to decrease blood
flow the next step after bandaging is
applying a tourniquet if the bleeding is
severe the tourniquet will definitely
help control it the tourniquet should be
placed just above the wound as close to
it as possible keep in mind the exact
time you applied it so when the
ambulance arrives you can tell them how
long the tourniquet has been there by
the way the more survival tips you know
the better so check out our other video
on this topic right here it'll help you
clear the air once again on which
first-aid recommendations are true and
which are dangerously false anyway on to
the next tip number 9 nose bleeds
our first instinct in this situation is
to tilt the head back because that's
what we were always taught but this
couldn't be more wrong and harmful
tilting your head back can cause the
blood to run back into the throat which
can lead to gagging again the first
thing to do if the nosebleed is really
bad is to call an ambulance
then sit the person down tip their head
slightly forward to let the blood flow
down and pinch the soft part of the nose
with your fingers for no more than 10
minutes this can help stop the blood
flow if the bleeding doesn't stop keep
holding pressure for another 10 minutes
the person should also spit out all the
blood so as not to cause vomiting do not
clog the nose with cotton balls or
tampons another myth we've all been
taught because this can make the
bleeding even worse just wait for the
paramedic they'll know exactly what to
do if the previous methods didn't help
number 8 hypothermia hypothermia is
basically a condition that occurs when
your body temperature falls below 95
degrees Fahrenheit it happens because
your body simply dissipates more heat
than it absorbs the usual symptoms of
hypothermia include shivering slurred
speech weak pulse and even loss of
consciousness without the right
treatment hypothermia can be
life-threatening so you need to be
careful with your plan of action the
main mistake people tend to make is to
rub the body vigorously so that the
friction will cause the body temperature
to rise quickly never do that instead
follow these simple steps first of all
call an ambulance immediately
you can bet that this will be the first
step of all these emergency situations
secondly place the person in a warm room
and cover the frostbitten body parts
make sure that the person is wearing dry
clothes and wrap them up in warm
blankets you can also apply warm dry
compresses on the person's chest it's
also important to give them sweet drinks
and a hot meal and what's crucial is to
never use alcohol to treat hypothermia
it dilates the blood vessels and leads
to even more
of heat number seven cardiac arrest this
one is not to be taken lightly so you
have to act fast again
start by calling 911 the most effective
thing you can do is perform CPR and
here's the biggest blunder
you must not perform the same action for
people of different ages for adults
jump-starting the heart is done by
placing two hands in the center of the
chest and using your upper body strength
to compress the chest to a depth of two
inches you should direct all the
pressure through the heels of your palms
however performing CPR and children
requires a different technique you can
use either one or two hands depending on
the size of the child and don't forget
that children have way smaller chests so
the depth of the compressions should be
no more than an inch and a half while
the American Heart Association
recommends hands only CPR for adults
it's not always the same for kids so be
sure to do mouth-to-mouth resuscitation
in combination with CPR do 30
compressions to 2 breaths and finally to
resuscitate an infant you should press
with only two fingers in the center of
the chest and the compressions should
only be 1 to 1.5 inches deep mouth to
mouth is also necessary again 30
compressions to 2 breaths remember that
you can perform CPR only when the person
is placed on a flat solid surface
number six burns burn wounds are quite
painful even if they're just minor ones
still we'll start by precaution in you
to call an ambulance if the burn looks
pretty bad if it's not then the
treatment plan is simple first of all if
it's a slight burn without significant
tissue damage it's important to rinse
the skin with water for 10 to 20 minutes
until the pain subsides apply a sterile
bandage and place some ice or anything
cold on top aloe vera gel is also great
for burns because it helps reduce pain
under no circumstances should you pop
the burn blisters this can cause an
infection
if you're dealing with a major burn
again call 911 immediately
until the EMS get there try to elevate
the burned area above the level of the
heart if possible cover the area with a
cool bandage rinsing severe burns with
water isn't advisable it can lead to a
drop in blood pressure and decreased
blood flow according to the French
national academy of medicine natural
mineral water also helps in case of
burns after you've done all that just
wait for a doctor that's the best thing
you can do at this point number five
airway obstruction
if a person is choking the best thing to
do is perform the Heimlich maneuver
which is basically an abdominal thrust
to do this stand behind the person wrap
your arms around their waist and tip the
person a bit forward then make a fist
with one hand grasp it with the other
hand and quickly thrust it into the area
slightly above the belly button about
ten thrusts should do the job a lot of
people make the awful mistake of
performing the Heimlich maneuver on an
unconscious person do not do that first
of all you need to call an ambulance
ASAP secondly lay the person down on his
or her back if whatever is blocking the
airway is visible try to scoop it out
with your fingers covered with a cloth
if you can't see the obstruction perform
CPR
it can help dislodge the object if you
use the Heimlich maneuver on a pregnant
woman press a bit above the ribcage
number four dislocated joints
dislocations are really tricky because
we can find out the type of a certain
dislocation only with the help of an
x-ray that's why the common tip to try
and put a joint back in place couldn't
be more detrimental despite what you've
seen in action movies moving the joint
can damage it as well as the muscles
nerves and blood vessels surrounding it
that's why the only thing we can do is
call an ambulance and not let the person
move the injured part of the body you
can use any long stiff object to bind
the injured part and the nearest joints
in order to immobilize them using a
bandage wrap does a great job at
stopping the joint from moving
if there are no suitable objects then
the arm should be fastened to the body
and the leg should be pressed and
tightened against the other leg do not
apply bandages too tightly it's not
providing any extra help whatsoever but
instead restricting blood flow you can
also put some ice on a dislocated joint
until ambulance workers get their number
three food poisoning in the case of food
poisoning the biggest nono you can make
is drinking little or no water at all
your system is dehydrated so you need to
drink more water starting with small
sips and then slowly increasing the
amount water can even help you avoid
vomiting forget about solids spicy sweet
and fried foods until your system gets
back to normal right now you need bland
foods like bananas rice oatmeal honey or
mashed potatoes don't make yourself
throw up
sometimes it exacerbates the situation
another bad decision is to take anti
nausea medication you should always
consult a doctor before taking any type
of medicine call an ambulance if your
condition is getting worse for example
you have severe stomach pain and bloody
vomit number 2 snake bites
when we're talking about snakebites
most people are convinced that the first
thing to do is suck the poison out of
the bite again we've seen it in movies
so we think that's what we should do but
this method doesn't help a person in any
way the same thing goes for tourniquets
and ice they are completely useless so
what exactly should you do in this
situation first of all can you guess it
call an ambulance as fast as you can
after that lay the person down so the
poison will spread quickly clean the
wound and cover it with a clean cloth if
it's possible try to elevate the bitten
area so that it's at or above heart
level if the person is unconscious
perform CPR while you're waiting for the
EMS to arrive try to remember what the
snake look like this can help them
choose the right treatment number one
lower abdominal pain everyone
experiences abdominal pain from time to
time however if the pain is severe and
accompanied by fever bloody stools or
bloating you should consult the doctor
immediately
do not take painkillers or muscle
relaxers doctors advise against this
because eliminating the pain could cause
us to miss the signs of potentially
fatal diseases such as acute
appendicitis bowel obstruction or a
perforated ulcer don't try to take care
of the situation by yourself call a
doctor and start treatment as soon as
possible
remember that if you're ever in a
dangerous situation of any kind make
sure to look out for your own well-being
first it might sound selfish but look at
it this way let's say you've just seen
someone get bitten by a poisonous snake
before you rush to help the victim make
sure the snake has left the scene also
before you provide first aid to somebody
check the person's pulse and breathing
don't forget to examine the pupils they
should be large in dim lighting but
becomes smaller in bright light the
first thing you should always do is call
an ambulance immediately don't assume
that you can handle the situation by
yourself which of these is the most
ridiculous survival hack you've ever
heard tell us in the comment section
below don't forget to hit the like
button to share this video with your
friends subscribe to our Channel and you
won't miss a thing
you